# Edge-Based-SDN-Solution-for-Handling-Increasing-IoT-Data

Aditya Saroja Hariharakrishnan and Abhirami Shankar

In today's world, IoT has emerged to be one of the industries that is generating extremely large amount of information due to wide-area deployments of IoT devices. The varied types of Iot devices and multiple heterogeneous networking environments need to co-exist, thus demanding management of such environments and related volume of data. Given the different classes of IoT traffic and estimated volume of excess data, the current approaches proposed for IoT information management may not be sufficient. Most of the ideas today for managing IoT data involves storage and processing of the data in the Cloud, which not only places more computational load on the cloud to handle the data, but also introduces latency, jitter, bandwidth consumption and delay. In order to reduce these critical parameters and enable data abstraction at the network level, we propose an Edge based SDN solution to handle IoT data. In this paper, we create the functionality of processing the data at the edge, and an SDN controller is used to retrieve the data-specific functions from the cloud.  When IoT raw data is received by the edge,  the type of service the data needs in order to convert it to human readable data is identified by analyzing the header of the IoT raw data. Once the type of service has been identified, the edge acts as an SDN controller and retrieves only the data-specific function from the cloud, caches it and serves similar type of IoT data. As and when a new type of service is identified by the edge,  the data-specific function is retrieved from the cloud. Through this, IoT data does not have to travel all the way to the cloud and back, thereby reducing negative factors mentioned above.
